= wren

Wren (the "Website RENderer") is a blog-aware static website generator and publisher that converts a folder structure with text files and images into an HTML5 website. It can then publish the HTML and CSS outputs to an FTP server, file system, or S3. Wren is unique among other static generators in that (1) any file or folder contents can be mixed and inserted into other files and (2) content can be published in various forms (regular HTML, javascript slideshow, PDF, etc.). You can get the behavior of many features of CMS systems but without having to install resource-intensive publishing systems like Wordpress or Rails.

== Features

* Content mixing, meaning:
  * insert the raw contents of one file into another
  * generate a list with contents of all the files of a particular folder, formatted with HAML templates
    (An example of this would be a blog landing page, where you see 10 posts listed in chronological order,
    but only the title and first paragraph are shown for each. Pages like this can be generated with 
    simple text directive pointing to a folder and a template file.)
* Pages generate with zero configuration.
* Multiple output file support (accordion pages, Javascript-powered slideshows, PDF files)
* Multiple format support (plaintext, textile, markdown, HAML)
* Uses Compass for SASS (or SCSS) to CSS
* Page templates and partials
* A blog folder for more blog-like content
* Automatic index.html file generation for folders.
  If you have a folder structure of text files already, you can copy in all of them without having to
  generate any new files. Wren generates index.html files for every folder, inserting a "catalog" of
  the files in that folder. You can customize this of course, but this is designed to enable the easiest 
  route from a set of text files to a website.
* Pagination of index files
* Dependency updates for inserted content
* Watcher for efficient workflow
* Local preview publication (e.g. Sites folder on a Mac, running Apache with "Web Sharing" enabled)
* On Mac: thumbnail generation
* HTML5 support

== Notes

* There are two ways to add categories to a blog post. Either use the CATEGORIES("") directive (with quotes!) to provide a comma-separated list, or create a one-level deep folder structure and put posts in the folders.
* To paginate an index.text or index.haml file, use the INSERTCATALOG directive and place the keyword PAGINATE as the starting index.

== Contributing to wren
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 William Martin. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

